# TomTom-Queries
 A brief program to retrieve information from TomTom Routing API for given Origin-Destination
## Contents
* [Description](#Description)
* [Utilisation](#Utilization) 
* [Auteurs](#Authors) 

## Description

This program enables the retrieval of comprehensive route information through queries to TomTom APIs. Given a specific route and departure time, it retrieves travel times under various conditions, including without traffic, with traffic, and historical travel times.

## Utilization

When launching this program, the user will need to specify 5 parameters that the program will ask for:

- Path to input data: This is a database on a closed road network. At a minimum, this database should contain three columns (source, target, geometry) where each row indicates the starting point, destination, and coordinates (longitude, latitude) of these points enclosed in a linestring object (longitude latitude, longitude latitude).

- Path to output folder: This is the path to the folder where the various outputs of the program will be stored.

- Number of routes: This is the number of routes for which you want to gather information.

- Number of waypoints: This is the number of intermediate points you want to include for each route.

- Batch size: This parameter allows reducing the size of the final output of the program. It specifies the number of routes you want in a given output, thus limiting the size of the output data. For example, if you specify a number of routes equal to 100 and a batch size of 10, instead of having a single output containing information on 100 routes, you will have 10 outputs each containing information on 10 routes. The utility of this technique is not prominent when the number of routes is low and there are no specified waypoints. However, when the number of routes increases, especially when waypoints are specified, it becomes extremely useful. Since we retrieve information on road segments delimited by the specified waypoints, the output data can quickly increase. Specifically, for a number of routes of 100 and 100 waypoints, we end up with an output of 10,000 lines. With a batch size, we limit the lines in an outputs by increasing By specifying the batch size, we limit the number of lines in each output while accepting an increase in the number of outputs generated by the program

- Your TomTom API key: This is your TomTom API key.

## Authors
    
* Joseph Kokouvi DJAFON

* Lucas JAVAUDIN


